# The Management API

In order for Netlify customers to create and manage their own instances of your microservice, you'll need to create a management API that exposes the following endpoints:

    GET    /               # returns the manifest for the API (in development - not required yet)
    POST   /instances      # create a new instance of your microservice
    GET    /instances/:id  # get the current configuration of an instance
    PUT    /instances/:id  # update the configuration of an instance
    DELETE /instances/:id  # delete an instance

When a customer adds an instance of your service to a site, Netlify will POST to `/instances` on your management API with a JSON body.

Example Request from Netlify:

    {
      "uuid": "1234-1234-1234",
      "config": {
        "setting": "value"
      }
    }

- `uuid`: Unique ID generated by Netlify. This will be included in the headers and JWS for all API calls from Netlify.
- `config`: Fields and values you need for configuring your microservice for a customer. We plan to pull this information from the manifest returned from the GET request to `/`, but for now, you can send us the information via Slack.

Example Response from your management API:

    {
      "id": "5a76f-b3902",
      "endpoint": "https://my-endpoint.example.com",
      "config": {
        "setting": "value"
      },
      "env": {
        "ENV_VARIABLE": "value"
      },
      "snippets": {
        "app-snippet", {
           "title": "Snippet From Demo App", 
           "position": "head",
           "html": "<script>console.log('Hello from App')</script>"
        }
      }
    }

- `id`: A unique ID generated by you, for reference within your own API. Any string is valid for our purposes. This will be included in the headers and JWS for all API calls from Netlify, and used in the endpoints listed above for instance-specific calls to the management API.
- `endpoint`: Endpoint URL for your microservice. You may choose to create a unique path per id, or handle all calls at the same address and route internally based on JWS information. We'll proxy requests to this endpoint, as described in [Accessing Your Microservice](your-microservice.md)
- `config`: This can return back exactly what was received in the POST request, or include additional fields or altered values. This should also be what is returned in response to a GET request to `/instances/:id`.

Though not implemented yet, we plan to include a `state` field, which will allow your service to handle async provisioning, in case it takes some amount of time to activate the new service.

[How Netlify sites access your microservice →](your-microservice.md)
